egs2/how2_2000h/sum1/README.md, before:

## End to End Speech Summarization

This recipe can be used to build E2E Speech Summarization models using restricted self-attention on the HowTo corpus of instructional videos. 

HowTo 2000h fbank-pitch features have been released to enable reproduction of this recipe. 

Training is done in two stages, (a) ASR Pretraining, and (b) Summarization fine-tuning

First run ASR pretraining as follows:
The recipe is based on asr1
```bash
local/run_asr.sh --asr_tag asr_pretrain
``` 
Then run the finetuning on summarization using the previously trained model as the initialization

```bash
./run.sh --asr_tag sum_finetune --asr_args "--init_param exp/asr_asr_pretrain/valid.acc.ave_10best.pth:::ctc"
```

# Results on ASR


## asr_base_conformer_lf_mix

### WER

|dataset|Snt|Wrd|Corr|Sub|Del|Ins|Err|S.Err|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|decode_asr_model_valid.acc.best/dev5_test|3016|55215|93.1|4.8|2.1|1.9|8.8|56.7|

### CER

|dataset|Snt|Wrd|Corr|Sub|Del|Ins|Err|S.Err|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|decode_asr_model_valid.acc.best/dev5_test|3016|276377|97.1|1.1|1.9|1.9|4.8|56.7|

### TER

|dataset|Snt|Wrd|Corr|Sub|Del|Ins|Err|S.Err|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|decode_asr_model_valid.acc.best/dev5_test|3016|82484|94.1|3.5|2.4|2.2|8.0|56.7|



# Results on Summarization

## asr_ft_sum
### SUMM
- Model link: [huggingface](https://huggingface.co/espnet/roshansh_how2_asr_raw_ft_sum_valid.acc)
- ASR config: [./conf/train_sum_conformer_lf.yaml](./conf/train_sum_conformer_lf.yaml)
- Inference config: [./conf/decode_sum.yaml](./conf/decode_sum.yaml)

|dataset|Snt|Wrd|ROUGE-1|ROUGE-2|ROUGE-L|METEOR|BERTScore|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|decode_sum_asr_model_valid.acc.best/dev5_test_sum|2127|69795|60.72|44.7|56.1|29.36|91.53|



Please cite the following paper if you use this recipe:
```Bibtex
@misc{sharma2022speech,
      title={Speech Summarization using Restricted Self-Attention}, 
      author={Roshan Sharma and Shruti Palaskar and Alan W Black and Florian Metze},
      year={2022},
      eprint={2110.06263},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}

```

Commit message:

Data prep and seq len fix for lf_selfattn

egs2/how2_2000h/sum1/README.md, after:

## End to End Speech Summarization

This recipe can be used to build E2E Speech Summarization models using restricted self-attention on the HowTo corpus of instructional videos. 

HowTo 2000h fbank-pitch features have been released to enable reproduction of this recipe. You can request the use of this data using our (data request form)[https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSfW2i8UnjuoH2KKSU0BvcKRbhnk_vL3HcNlM0QLsJGb_UEDVQ/viewform]

For ASR and Summarization, please request the data labeled "(audio_2000) fbank+pitch features in Kaldi scp/ark format for 2000 hours"

You will recieve a data download link shortly after you submit the form. You can download the data by clicking on the link or using the bash wget utility. Then untar the package to obtain the how2_release directory. 

Set that directory's path in db.sh using the variable HOW2_2kH and run local/data.sh to obtain the correct data directories. 

Training is done in two stages, (a) ASR Pretraining, and (b) Summarization fine-tuning

First run ASR pretraining as follows:
The recipe is based on asr1
```bash
local/run_asr.sh --asr_tag asr_pretrain
``` 
Then run the finetuning on summarization using the previously trained model as the initialization

```bash
./run.sh --asr_tag sum_finetune --asr_args "--init_param exp/asr_asr_pretrain/valid.acc.ave_10best.pth:::ctc"
```

# Results on ASR


## asr_base_conformer_lf_mix

### WER

|dataset|Snt|Wrd|Corr|Sub|Del|Ins|Err|S.Err|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|decode_asr_model_valid.acc.best/dev5_test|3016|55215|93.1|4.8|2.1|1.9|8.8|56.7|

### CER

|dataset|Snt|Wrd|Corr|Sub|Del|Ins|Err|S.Err|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|decode_asr_model_valid.acc.best/dev5_test|3016|276377|97.1|1.1|1.9|1.9|4.8|56.7|

### TER

|dataset|Snt|Wrd|Corr|Sub|Del|Ins|Err|S.Err|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|decode_asr_model_valid.acc.best/dev5_test|3016|82484|94.1|3.5|2.4|2.2|8.0|56.7|



# Results on Summarization

## asr_ft_sum
### SUMM
- Model link: [huggingface](https://huggingface.co/espnet/roshansh_how2_asr_raw_ft_sum_valid.acc)
- ASR config: [./conf/train_sum_conformer_lf.yaml](./conf/train_sum_conformer_lf.yaml)
- Inference config: [./conf/decode_sum.yaml](./conf/decode_sum.yaml)

|dataset|Snt|Wrd|ROUGE-1|ROUGE-2|ROUGE-L|METEOR|BERTScore|
|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|
|decode_sum_asr_model_valid.acc.best/dev5_test_sum|2127|69795|60.72|44.7|56.1|29.36|91.53|



Please cite the following paper if you use this recipe:
```Bibtex
@misc{sharma2022speech,
      title={Speech Summarization using Restricted Self-Attention}, 
      author={Roshan Sharma and Shruti Palaskar and Alan W Black and Florian Metze},
      year={2022},
      eprint={2110.06263},
      archivePrefix={arXiv},
      primaryClass={cs.CL}
}

```
