egs2/chime7_task1/asr1/README.md, before:

# CHiME-7 DASR (CHiME-7 Task 1)

### Distant Automatic Speech Transcription with Multiple Devices in Diverse Scenarios

[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/twitter.com/chimechallenge.svg?style=social&label=Follow%20%40chimechallenge)](https://twitter.com/chimechallenge)
[![Slack][slack-badge]][slack-invite]


---

#### If you want to participate please fill this [Google form](https://forms.gle/vbk4gpF77hP5LgKM8) (one contact person per-team only, we will use it to handle submission see [official website, submission page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/submission))
### Sections
1. <a href="#description">Short Description </a>
2. <a href="#data_creation">Data Download and Creation</a>
3. <a href="#baseline">Baseline System</a>
4. <a href="#eval_script">Evaluation</a>
5. <a href="#common_issues">Common Issues</a>
6. <a href="#reference">References</a>

## <a id="description">1. Short Description  </a>

<img src="https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/images/task_overview.png" width="450" height="230" />

This CHiME-7 Challenge Task inherits directly from the previous [CHiME-6 Challenge](https://chimechallenge.github.io/chime6/). 
Its focus is on distant automatic speech transcription and segmentation with multiple recording devices.

The goal of each participant is to devise an automated system that can tackle this problem, and is able to generalize across different array topologies and different application scenarios: meetings, dinner parties and interviews.

Participants can possibly exploit commonly used open-source datasets (e.g. Librispeech) and pre-trained models. In detail, this includes popular self-supervised representation (SSLR) models (see [Rules Section](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/rules) for a complete list).

---

**See the [official website](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/index) to learn more !**
<br>
**All participants will be invited to present their submission to our [Interspeech 2023 Satellite Workshop](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/workshop/index).**

### <a id="reach_us">Any Question/Problem ? Reach us !</a>

If you are considering participating or just want to learn more then please join the <a href="https://groups.google.com/g/chime5/">CHiME Google Group</a>. <br>
We have also a [CHiME Slack Workspace][slack-invite].<br>
Follow us on [Twitter][Twitter], we will also use that to make announcements. <br>



## <a id="installation">2. Installation </a>

**NOTE, if you don't want to use the baseline at all**, you can 
skip this following procedure and go directly to Section 2.
For data generation, only the scripts local/data/gen_task1_data.sh, local/data/gen_task1_data.py and 
local/data/generate_chime6_data.sh are used. You can git clone ESPNet, and run these without
ESPNet installation as their dependencies are minimal (`local/data/generate_chime6_data.sh` needs [sox](https://sox.sourceforge.net/) however). 

### <a id="espnet_installation">2.1 ESPNet Installation  </a> 

Firstly, clone ESPNet. <br/>
```bash
git clone https://github.com/espnet/espnet/
```
Next, ESPNet must be installed, go to espnet/tools. <br />
This will install a new environment called espnet with Python 3.9.2
```bash
cd espnet/tools
./setup_anaconda.sh venv "" 3.9.2
```
Activate this new environment.
```bash
source ./venv/bin/activate
```
Then install ESPNet with Pytorch 1.13.1 be sure to put the correct version for **cudatoolkit**. 
```bash
make TH_VERSION=1.13.1 CUDA_VERSION=11.6
```
If you plan to train the ASR model, you would need to compile Kaldi. Otherwise you can 
skip this step. Go to the `kaldi` directory and follow instructions in `INSTALL`.  
```bash
cd kaldi
nano INSTALL
```
Finally, get in this recipe folder and install other baseline required packages (e.g. lhotse) using this script: 
```bash
cd ../egs2/chime7_task1/asr1
./local/install_dependencies.sh
```
You should be good to go !

**NOTE:** if you encounter any problem have a look at <a href="#common_issues">Section 4. Common Issues</a> here below. <br>
Or reach us, see <a href="#reach_us">Section 2.</a>


## <a id="data_creation">2. Data Download and Creation </a>
See Data page in [CHiME-7 DASR webpage](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/data) 
for instructions on how data is structured. 
See the [Rules page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/rules) too for info about allowed external datasets and pre-trained models. 

CHiME-7 DASR makes use of three datasets (but participants can use optionally also allowed external datasets), 
these are:

1. CHiME-6 Challenge [1]
2. Amazon Alexa Dinner Party Corpus (DiPCO) [2]
3. LDC Mixer 6 Speech (here we use a new re-annotated version) [3]

Unfortunately, only DiPCo can be downloaded automatically, the others must be 
downloaded manually and then processed via our scripts here. <br>
See [Data page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/data) for 
the instructions on how to obtain the re-annotated Mixer 6 Speech and CHiME-6 data.  

### <a id="data_description">2.1 Generating the Data</a>
To generate the data you need to have downloaded and unpacked manually Mixer 6 Speech
and the CHiME-5 dataset as obtained from instructions here [Data page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/data).


**Stage 0** of `run.sh` here handles CHiME-7 DASR dataset creation and calls `local/gen_task1_data.sh`. <br>
Note that DiPCo will be downloaded and extracted automatically. <br>
To **ONLY** generate the data you will need to run:
```bash
./run.sh --chime5-root YOUR_PATH_TO_CHiME5 --dipco-root PATH_WHERE_DOWNLOAD_DIPCO \
--mixer6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_MIXER6 --chime6-path PATH_WHERE_STORE_CHiME6 --stage 0 --stop-stage 0
```
If you have already CHiME-6 data you can use that without re-creating it from CHiME-5. 
```bash
./run.sh --chime6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_CHiME6 --dipco-root PATH_WHERE_DOWNLOAD_DIPCO \
--mixer6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_MIXER6 --stage 0 --stop-stage 0
```
**If you want to run the recipe from data prep to ASR training and decoding**, instead remove the stop-stage flag.
But please you want to take a look at arguments such as `gss_max_batch_dur` 
and `asr_batch_size` because you may want to adjust these based on your hardware. 
```bash
./run.sh --chime6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_CHiME6 --dipco-root PATH_WHERE_DOWNLOAD_DIPCO \
--mixer6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_MIXER6 --stage 0 --ngpu YOUR_NUMBER_OF_GPUs
```
**We also provide a pre-trained model**, you can run only inference on development set 
using:
```bash
./run.sh --chime6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_CHiME6 --dipco-root PATH_WHERE_DOWNLOAD_DIPCO \
--mixer6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_MIXER6 --stage 0 --ngpu YOUR_NUMBER_OF_GPUs \
--use-pretrained popcornell/chime7_task1_asr1_baseline \
--decode_only 1 
```
You should be able to replicate our results detailed in Section 3.1.2 with the 
top 80% envelope variance automatic channel selection (a bit more than 34% WER on CHiME-6). <br>
Note that results may differ a little because GSS inference is not deterministic. 
### <a id="data_description">2.2 Quick Data Overview</a>
The generated dataset folder after running the script should look like this: 
```
chime7_task1
├── chime6
│   ├── audio
│   │   ├── dev
│   │   ├── eval
│   │   └── train
│   ├── transcriptions
│   │   ├── dev
│   │   ├── eval
│   │   └── train
│   ├── transcriptions_scoring
│   │   ├── dev
│   │   ├── eval
│   │   └── train
│   └── uem
│       ├── dev
│       ├── eval
│       └── train
├── dipco
│   ├── audio
│   │   └── dev
│   ├── transcriptions
│   │   └── dev
│   └── transcriptions_scoring
│       └── dev
└── mixer6
    ├── audio
    │   ├── dev
    │   ├── train_call
    │   └── train_intv
    ├── transcriptions
    │   ├── dev
    │   ├── train_call
    │   └── train_intv
    └── transcriptions_scoring
        ├── dev
        ├── train_call
        └── train_intv
```
**NOTE**: eval directories for chime6 are empty at this stage. <br>
Eval data (which is actually blind only for Mixer6) can be generated by using as an argument 
`--gen-eval 1` (note you will need the Mixer6 eval set which will be released [later](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/dates)).
<br>

---
To find out if the data has been generated correctly, you can run this 
script from this directory <br>
If it runs successfully your MD5 checksums are correct. <br>
These are stored here in this repo in `local/chime7_dasr_md5.json`.
```bash
python ./local/check_data_gen.py -c PATH_TO_CHIME7TASK_DATA 
```
When evaluation data is released, please re-check again: 
```bash
python ./local/check_data_gen.py -c PATH_TO_CHIME7TASK_DATA -e 1
```

Additional data description is available in [Data page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/data)

## <a id="baseline">3. Baseline System</a>

The baseline system in this recipe is similar to `egs2/chime6` one, which 
itself is inherited direcly from CHiME-6 Challenge Kaldi recipe for Track 1 [s5_track1](https://github.com/kaldi-asr/kaldi/tree/master/egs/chime6/s5_track1). <br>

It is composed of two modules (with an optional channel selection module):
1. Guided Source Separation (GSS) [5], here we employ the GPU-based version (much faster) from [Desh Raj](https://github.com/desh2608/gss).
2. End-to-end ASR model based on [4], which is a transformer encoder/decoder model trained <br>
with joint CTC/attention [6]. It uses WavLM [7] as a feature extractor. 
3. Optional Automatic Channel selection based on Envelope Variance Measure (EV) [8].

### 3.1 Results 

#### 3.1.1 Main Track [Work in Progress]
The main track baseline unfortunately is currently WIP, we hope we can finish it 
in the next weeks. <br>
It will be based on a TS-VAD diarization model which leverages pre-trained self-supervised
representation. <br>
We apologize for the inconvenience. <br>
The result of the diarization will be fed to this recipe GSS+ASR pipeline.

#### 3.1.2 Acoustic Robustness Sub-Track: Oracle Diarization + ASR
Pretrained model: [popcornell/chime7_task1_asr1_baseline](popcornell/chime7_task1_asr1_baseline) <br>
Detailed decoding results (insertions, deletions etc) are available in the model Huggingface repository
see [channel selection log top 80%](https://huggingface.co/popcornell/chime7_task1_asr1_baseline/blob/main/decoding_channel_selection_80.txt).

Here we report the results obtained using channel selection (
retining 80% of all channels) prior to performing GSS and decoding with the baseline pre-trained 
ASR model.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Dataset</th>
    <th>split</th>
    <th>front-end</th>
    <th>SA-WER (%)</th>
    <th>macro SA-WER (%)</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>CHiME-6</td>
    <td rowspan="3">dev</td>
    <td>GSS (EV top 80%)</td>
    <td> </td>
    <td rowspan="3"> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DiPCo</td>
    <td>GSS (EV top 80%)</td>
    <td> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Mixer-6</td>
    <td>GSS (EV top 80%)</td>
    <td> </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Such baseline system would rank sixth on dev set based on the rules of the past CHiME-6 Challenge 
on Track 1 (unconstrained LM). 
This system with top 80% mics and EV selection will be used as the baseline also for evaluation.  

One of our hopes is that participants can devise new techniques for
better channel selection/fusion strategies. 

## <a id="eval_script"> 4. Evaluation Script </a>

Will be added together with the diarization baseline. 
Evaluation will be performed as described in the [Task Main Page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/index) and needs joint diarization and transcription. 
by computing SA-WER for each speaker, where the hypothesis are re-ordered based on the best reordering defined by diarization error rate.


## <a id="common_issues"> 5. Common Issues </a>

1. `AssertionError: Torch not compiled with CUDA enabled` <br> for some reason you installed Pytorch without CUDA support. <br>
 Please install Pytorch with CUDA support as explained in [pytorch website](https://pytorch.org/).
2. `ERROR: Could not install packages due to an OSError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'YOUR_PATH/espnet/tools/venv/lib/pyth
on3.9/site-packages/numpy-1.23.5.dist-info/METADATA'`. This is due to numpy installation getting corrupted for some reason.
You can remove the site-packages/numpy- folder manually and try to reinstall numpy 1.23.5 with pip. 
3. `FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'PATH2YOURESPNET/espnet/tools/venv/bin/sox'
` during CHiME-6 generation from CHiME-5, `correct_signals_for_clock_drift.py` script: try to install conda sox again, via `conda install -c conda-forge sox`.
4. `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 's3prl'` for some reason s3prl did not install, run `YOUR_ESPNET_ROOT/tools/installers/install_s3prl.sh`
5. `Command 'gss' not found` for some reason gss did not install, you can run `YOUR_ESPNET_ROOT/tools/installers/install_gss.sh` 
7. `wav-reverberate command not found` you need to install Kaldi. go to `YOUR_ESPNET_ROOT/tools/kaldi` and follow the instructions 
in `INSTALL`.
8. `WARNING  [enhancer.py:245] Out of memory error while processing the batch` you got out-of-memory (OOM) when running GSS. 
You could try changing parameters as `gss_max_batch_dur` and in local/run_gss.sh `context-duration` 
(this latter could degrade results however). See local/run_gss.sh for more info.

## Memory Consumption (Useful for SLURM etc.)

Figures kindly reported by Christoph Boeddeker, running this baseline code
on Paderborn Center for Parallel Computing cluster (which uses SLURM). 
These figures could be useful to anyone that uses job schedulers and clusters 
for which resources are assigned strictly (e.g. job killed if it exceed requested
memory resources).

Used as default:
 - train: 3G mem
 - cuda: 4G mem (1 GPU)
 - decode: 4G mem

GSS:
 - nj=8 (default 4)
 - time 45 h per job (but might be faster)
 - num_threads=5 (1 for main process, 4 for DataLoader processes)
 - Mem: 2 GB per core or 10 GB per job. In SLURM it is --mem 2GB, since mem means mem-per-core in SLURM.
 
scripts/audio/format_wav_scp.sh:
 - Some spikes to the range of 15 to 17 GB

${python} -m espnet2.bin.${asr_task}_inference${inference_bin_tag}:
 - Few spikes to the 9 to 11 GB range.



## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Naoyuki Kamo for his precious help, Christoph Boeddeker for 
reporting many bugs and the memory consumption figures. 

## <a id="reference"> 6. References </a>

[1] Watanabe, S., Mandel, M., Barker, J., Vincent, E., Arora, A., Chang, X., et al. CHiME-6 challenge: Tackling multispeaker speech recognition for unsegmented recordings. <https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.09249> <br>
[2] Van Segbroeck, M., Zaid, A., Kutsenko, K., Huerta, C., Nguyen, T., Luo, X., et al. (2019). DiPCo--Dinner Party Corpus. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.13447> <br>
[3] Brandschain, L., Graff, D., Cieri, C., Walker, K., Caruso, C., & Neely, A. (2010, May). Mixer 6. In Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC'10). <br>
[4] Chang, X., Maekaku, T., Fujita, Y., & Watanabe, S. (2022). End-to-end integration of speech recognition, speech enhancement, and self-supervised learning representation. <https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.00540> <br>
[5] Boeddeker, C., Heitkaemper, J., Schmalenstroeer, J., Drude, L., Heymann, J., & Haeb-Umbach, R. (2018, September). Front-end processing for the CHiME-5 dinner party scenario. In CHiME5 Workshop, Hyderabad, India (Vol. 1). <br>
[6] Kim, S., Hori, T., & Watanabe, S. (2017, March). Joint CTC-attention based end-to-end speech recognition using multi-task learning. Proc. of ICASSP (pp. 4835-4839). IEEE. <br>
[7] Chen, S., Wang, C., Chen, Z., Wu, Y., Liu, S., Chen, Z., ... & Wei, F. (2022). Wavlm: Large-scale self-supervised pre-training for full stack speech processing. IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, 16(6), 1505-1518. <br>
[8] Wolf, M., & Nadeu, C. (2014). Channel selection measures for multi-microphone speech recognition. Speech Communication, 57, 170-180.

[slack-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-chat-green.svg?logo=slack
[slack-invite]: https://join.slack.com/t/chime-fey5388/shared_invite/zt-1oha0gedv-JEUr1mSztR7~iK9AxM4HOA
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/chimechallenge<h2>References</h2>

Commit message:

added remarks about GPU in shared mode

egs2/chime7_task1/asr1/README.md, after:

# CHiME-7 DASR (CHiME-7 Task 1)

### Distant Automatic Speech Transcription with Multiple Devices in Diverse Scenarios

[![Twitter](https://img.shields.io/twitter/url/https/twitter.com/chimechallenge.svg?style=social&label=Follow%20%40chimechallenge)](https://twitter.com/chimechallenge)
[![Slack][slack-badge]][slack-invite]


---

#### If you want to participate please fill this [Google form](https://forms.gle/vbk4gpF77hP5LgKM8) (one contact person per-team only, we will use it to handle submission see [official website, submission page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/submission))
### Sections
1. <a href="#description">Short Description </a>
2. <a href="#data_creation">Data Download and Creation</a>
3. <a href="#baseline">Baseline System</a>
4. <a href="#eval_script">Evaluation</a>
5. <a href="#common_issues">Common Issues</a>
6. <a href="#reference">References</a>

## <a id="description">1. Short Description  </a>

<img src="https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/images/task_overview.png" width="450" height="230" />

This CHiME-7 Challenge Task inherits directly from the previous [CHiME-6 Challenge](https://chimechallenge.github.io/chime6/). 
Its focus is on distant automatic speech transcription and segmentation with multiple recording devices.

The goal of each participant is to devise an automated system that can tackle this problem, and is able to generalize across different array topologies and different application scenarios: meetings, dinner parties and interviews.

Participants can possibly exploit commonly used open-source datasets (e.g. Librispeech) and pre-trained models. In detail, this includes popular self-supervised representation (SSLR) models (see [Rules Section](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/rules) for a complete list).

---

**See the [official website](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/index) to learn more !**
<br>
**All participants will be invited to present their submission to our [Interspeech 2023 Satellite Workshop](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/workshop/index).**

### <a id="reach_us">Any Question/Problem ? Reach us !</a>

If you are considering participating or just want to learn more then please join the <a href="https://groups.google.com/g/chime5/">CHiME Google Group</a>. <br>
We have also a [CHiME Slack Workspace][slack-invite].<br>
Follow us on [Twitter][Twitter], we will also use that to make announcements. <br>



## <a id="installation">2. Installation </a>

**NOTE, if you don't want to use the baseline at all**, you can 
skip this following procedure and go directly to Section 2.
For data generation, only the scripts local/data/gen_task1_data.sh, local/data/gen_task1_data.py and 
local/data/generate_chime6_data.sh are used. You can git clone ESPNet, and run these without
ESPNet installation as their dependencies are minimal (`local/data/generate_chime6_data.sh` needs [sox](https://sox.sourceforge.net/) however). 

### <a id="espnet_installation">2.1 ESPNet Installation  </a> 

Firstly, clone ESPNet. <br/>
```bash
git clone https://github.com/espnet/espnet/
```
Next, ESPNet must be installed, go to espnet/tools. <br />
This will install a new environment called espnet with Python 3.9.2
```bash
cd espnet/tools
./setup_anaconda.sh venv "" 3.9.2
```
Activate this new environment.
```bash
source ./venv/bin/activate
```
Then install ESPNet with Pytorch 1.13.1 be sure to put the correct version for **cudatoolkit**. 
```bash
make TH_VERSION=1.13.1 CUDA_VERSION=11.6
```
If you plan to train the ASR model, you would need to compile Kaldi. Otherwise you can 
skip this step. Go to the `kaldi` directory and follow instructions in `INSTALL`.  
```bash
cd kaldi
nano INSTALL
```
Finally, get in this recipe folder and install other baseline required packages (e.g. lhotse) using this script: 
```bash
cd ../egs2/chime7_task1/asr1
./local/install_dependencies.sh
```
You should be good to go !

**NOTE:** if you encounter any problem have a look at <a href="#common_issues">Section 4. Common Issues</a> here below. <br>
Or reach us, see <a href="#reach_us">Section 2.</a>


## <a id="data_creation">2. Data Download and Creation </a>
See Data page in [CHiME-7 DASR webpage](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/data) 
for instructions on how data is structured. 
See the [Rules page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/rules) too for info about allowed external datasets and pre-trained models. 

CHiME-7 DASR makes use of three datasets (but participants can use optionally also allowed external datasets), 
these are:

1. CHiME-6 Challenge [1]
2. Amazon Alexa Dinner Party Corpus (DiPCO) [2]
3. LDC Mixer 6 Speech (here we use a new re-annotated version) [3]

Unfortunately, only DiPCo can be downloaded automatically, the others must be 
downloaded manually and then processed via our scripts here. <br>
See [Data page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/data) for 
the instructions on how to obtain the re-annotated Mixer 6 Speech and CHiME-6 data.  

### <a id="data_description">2.1 Generating the Data</a>
To generate the data you need to have downloaded and unpacked manually Mixer 6 Speech
and the CHiME-5 dataset as obtained from instructions here [Data page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/data).


**Stage 0** of `run.sh` here handles CHiME-7 DASR dataset creation and calls `local/gen_task1_data.sh`. <br>
Note that DiPCo will be downloaded and extracted automatically. <br>
To **ONLY** generate the data you will need to run:
```bash
./run.sh --chime5-root YOUR_PATH_TO_CHiME5 --dipco-root PATH_WHERE_DOWNLOAD_DIPCO \
--mixer6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_MIXER6 --chime6-path PATH_WHERE_STORE_CHiME6 --stage 0 --stop-stage 0
```
If you have already CHiME-6 data you can use that without re-creating it from CHiME-5. 
```bash
./run.sh --chime6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_CHiME6 --dipco-root PATH_WHERE_DOWNLOAD_DIPCO \
--mixer6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_MIXER6 --stage 0 --stop-stage 0
```
**If you want to run the recipe from data prep to ASR training and decoding**, instead remove the stop-stage flag.
But please you want to take a look at arguments such as `gss_max_batch_dur` 
and `asr_batch_size` because you may want to adjust these based on your hardware. 
```bash
./run.sh --chime6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_CHiME6 --dipco-root PATH_WHERE_DOWNLOAD_DIPCO \
--mixer6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_MIXER6 --stage 0 --ngpu YOUR_NUMBER_OF_GPUs
```
**We also provide a pre-trained model**, you can run only inference on development set 
using:
```bash
./run.sh --chime6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_CHiME6 --dipco-root PATH_WHERE_DOWNLOAD_DIPCO \
--mixer6-root YOUR_PATH_TO_MIXER6 --stage 0 --ngpu YOUR_NUMBER_OF_GPUs \
--use-pretrained popcornell/chime7_task1_asr1_baseline \
--decode_only 1 
```
You should be able to replicate our results detailed in Section 3.1.2 with the 
top 80% envelope variance automatic channel selection (a bit more than 34% WER on CHiME-6). <br>
Note that results may differ a little because GSS inference is not deterministic. 
### <a id="data_description">2.2 Quick Data Overview</a>
The generated dataset folder after running the script should look like this: 
```
chime7_task1
├── chime6
│   ├── audio
│   │   ├── dev
│   │   ├── eval
│   │   └── train
│   ├── transcriptions
│   │   ├── dev
│   │   ├── eval
│   │   └── train
│   ├── transcriptions_scoring
│   │   ├── dev
│   │   ├── eval
│   │   └── train
│   └── uem
│       ├── dev
│       ├── eval
│       └── train
├── dipco
│   ├── audio
│   │   └── dev
│   ├── transcriptions
│   │   └── dev
│   └── transcriptions_scoring
│       └── dev
└── mixer6
    ├── audio
    │   ├── dev
    │   ├── train_call
    │   └── train_intv
    ├── transcriptions
    │   ├── dev
    │   ├── train_call
    │   └── train_intv
    └── transcriptions_scoring
        ├── dev
        ├── train_call
        └── train_intv
```
**NOTE**: eval directories for chime6 are empty at this stage. <br>
Eval data (which is actually blind only for Mixer6) can be generated by using as an argument 
`--gen-eval 1` (note you will need the Mixer6 eval set which will be released [later](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/dates)).
<br>

---
To find out if the data has been generated correctly, you can run this 
script from this directory <br>
If it runs successfully your MD5 checksums are correct. <br>
These are stored here in this repo in `local/chime7_dasr_md5.json`.
```bash
python ./local/check_data_gen.py -c PATH_TO_CHIME7TASK_DATA 
```
When evaluation data is released, please re-check again: 
```bash
python ./local/check_data_gen.py -c PATH_TO_CHIME7TASK_DATA -e 1
```

Additional data description is available in [Data page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/data)

## <a id="baseline">3. Baseline System</a>

The baseline system in this recipe is similar to `egs2/chime6` one, which 
itself is inherited direcly from CHiME-6 Challenge Kaldi recipe for Track 1 [s5_track1](https://github.com/kaldi-asr/kaldi/tree/master/egs/chime6/s5_track1). <br>

It is composed of two modules (with an optional channel selection module):
1. Guided Source Separation (GSS) [5], here we employ the GPU-based version (much faster) from [Desh Raj](https://github.com/desh2608/gss).
2. End-to-end ASR model based on [4], which is a transformer encoder/decoder model trained <br>
with joint CTC/attention [6]. It uses WavLM [7] as a feature extractor. 
3. Optional Automatic Channel selection based on Envelope Variance Measure (EV) [8].

### 3.1 Results 

#### 3.1.1 Main Track [Work in Progress]
The main track baseline unfortunately is currently WIP, we hope we can finish it 
in the next weeks. <br>
It will be based on a TS-VAD diarization model which leverages pre-trained self-supervised
representation. <br>
We apologize for the inconvenience. <br>
The result of the diarization will be fed to this recipe GSS+ASR pipeline.

#### 3.1.2 Acoustic Robustness Sub-Track: Oracle Diarization + ASR
Pretrained model: [popcornell/chime7_task1_asr1_baseline](popcornell/chime7_task1_asr1_baseline) <br>
Detailed decoding results (insertions, deletions etc) are available in the model Huggingface repository
see [channel selection log top 80%](https://huggingface.co/popcornell/chime7_task1_asr1_baseline/blob/main/decoding_channel_selection_80.txt).

Here we report the results obtained using channel selection (
retining 80% of all channels) prior to performing GSS and decoding with the baseline pre-trained 
ASR model.

<table>
<thead>
  <tr>
    <th>Dataset</th>
    <th>split</th>
    <th>front-end</th>
    <th>SA-WER (%)</th>
    <th>macro SA-WER (%)</th>
  </tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
  <tr>
    <td>CHiME-6</td>
    <td rowspan="3">dev</td>
    <td>GSS (EV top 80%)</td>
    <td> </td>
    <td rowspan="3"> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>DiPCo</td>
    <td>GSS (EV top 80%)</td>
    <td> </td>
  </tr>
  <tr>
    <td>Mixer-6</td>
    <td>GSS (EV top 80%)</td>
    <td> </td>
  </tr>
</tbody>
</table>

Such baseline system would rank sixth on dev set based on the rules of the past CHiME-6 Challenge 
on Track 1 (unconstrained LM). 
This system with top 80% mics and EV selection will be used as the baseline also for evaluation.  

One of our hopes is that participants can devise new techniques for
better channel selection/fusion strategies. 

## <a id="eval_script"> 4. Evaluation Script </a>

Will be added together with the diarization baseline. 
Evaluation will be performed as described in the [Task Main Page](https://www.chimechallenge.org/current/task1/index) and needs joint diarization and transcription. 
by computing SA-WER for each speaker, where the hypothesis are re-ordered based on the best reordering defined by diarization error rate.


## <a id="common_issues"> 5. Common Issues </a>

1. `AssertionError: Torch not compiled with CUDA enabled` <br> for some reason you installed Pytorch without CUDA support. <br>
 Please install Pytorch with CUDA support as explained in [pytorch website](https://pytorch.org/).
2. `ERROR: Could not install packages due to an OSError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'YOUR_PATH/espnet/tools/venv/lib/pyth
on3.9/site-packages/numpy-1.23.5.dist-info/METADATA'`. This is due to numpy installation getting corrupted for some reason.
You can remove the site-packages/numpy- folder manually and try to reinstall numpy 1.23.5 with pip. 
3. `FileNotFoundError: [Errno 2] No such file or directory: 'PATH2YOURESPNET/espnet/tools/venv/bin/sox'
` during CHiME-6 generation from CHiME-5, `correct_signals_for_clock_drift.py` script: try to install conda sox again, via `conda install -c conda-forge sox`.
4. `ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 's3prl'` for some reason s3prl did not install, run `YOUR_ESPNET_ROOT/tools/installers/install_s3prl.sh`
5. `Command 'gss' not found` for some reason gss did not install, you can run `YOUR_ESPNET_ROOT/tools/installers/install_gss.sh` 
7. `wav-reverberate command not found` you need to install Kaldi. go to `YOUR_ESPNET_ROOT/tools/kaldi` and follow the instructions 
in `INSTALL`.
8. `WARNING  [enhancer.py:245] Out of memory error while processing the batch` you got out-of-memory (OOM) when running GSS. 
You could try changing parameters as `gss_max_batch_dur` and in local/run_gss.sh `context-duration` 
(this latter could degrade results however). See local/run_gss.sh for more info.
9. Much worse WER than baseline and you are using `run.pl`. Check the GSS results, GSS currently does not work well
if you use multi-gpu inference and your GPUs are in shared mode. You need to run `set nvidia-smi -c 3`.


## Memory Consumption (Useful for SLURM etc.)

Figures kindly reported by Christoph Boeddeker, running this baseline code
on Paderborn Center for Parallel Computing cluster (which uses SLURM). 
These figures could be useful to anyone that uses job schedulers and clusters 
for which resources are assigned strictly (e.g. job killed if it exceed requested
memory resources).

Used as default:
 - train: 3G mem
 - cuda: 4G mem (1 GPU)
 - decode: 4G mem

GSS:
 - nj=8 (default 4)
 - time 45 h per job (but might be faster)
 - num_threads=5 (1 for main process, 4 for DataLoader processes)
 - Mem: 2 GB per core or 10 GB per job. In SLURM it is --mem 2GB, since mem means mem-per-core in SLURM.
 
scripts/audio/format_wav_scp.sh:
 - Some spikes to the range of 15 to 17 GB

${python} -m espnet2.bin.${asr_task}_inference${inference_bin_tag}:
 - Few spikes to the 9 to 11 GB range.



## Acknowledgements

We would like to thank Naoyuki Kamo for his precious help, Christoph Boeddeker for 
reporting many bugs and the memory consumption figures. 

## <a id="reference"> 6. References </a>

[1] Watanabe, S., Mandel, M., Barker, J., Vincent, E., Arora, A., Chang, X., et al. CHiME-6 challenge: Tackling multispeaker speech recognition for unsegmented recordings. <https://arxiv.org/abs/2004.09249> <br>
[2] Van Segbroeck, M., Zaid, A., Kutsenko, K., Huerta, C., Nguyen, T., Luo, X., et al. (2019). DiPCo--Dinner Party Corpus. <https://arxiv.org/abs/1909.13447> <br>
[3] Brandschain, L., Graff, D., Cieri, C., Walker, K., Caruso, C., & Neely, A. (2010, May). Mixer 6. In Proceedings of the Seventh International Conference on Language Resources and Evaluation (LREC'10). <br>
[4] Chang, X., Maekaku, T., Fujita, Y., & Watanabe, S. (2022). End-to-end integration of speech recognition, speech enhancement, and self-supervised learning representation. <https://arxiv.org/abs/2204.00540> <br>
[5] Boeddeker, C., Heitkaemper, J., Schmalenstroeer, J., Drude, L., Heymann, J., & Haeb-Umbach, R. (2018, September). Front-end processing for the CHiME-5 dinner party scenario. In CHiME5 Workshop, Hyderabad, India (Vol. 1). <br>
[6] Kim, S., Hori, T., & Watanabe, S. (2017, March). Joint CTC-attention based end-to-end speech recognition using multi-task learning. Proc. of ICASSP (pp. 4835-4839). IEEE. <br>
[7] Chen, S., Wang, C., Chen, Z., Wu, Y., Liu, S., Chen, Z., ... & Wei, F. (2022). Wavlm: Large-scale self-supervised pre-training for full stack speech processing. IEEE Journal of Selected Topics in Signal Processing, 16(6), 1505-1518. <br>
[8] Wolf, M., & Nadeu, C. (2014). Channel selection measures for multi-microphone speech recognition. Speech Communication, 57, 170-180.

[slack-badge]: https://img.shields.io/badge/slack-chat-green.svg?logo=slack
[slack-invite]: https://join.slack.com/t/chime-fey5388/shared_invite/zt-1oha0gedv-JEUr1mSztR7~iK9AxM4HOA
[twitter]: https://twitter.com/chimechallenge<h2>References</h2>
